README.md, before:

# Report Generator

This script provides an automated way to summarize changes made to files in a Git repository. It uses the OpenAI API to generate concise, human-readable summaries of the `git diff` output, useful for generating changelogs or quick summaries of recent modifications.

## Features

- Fetches and summarizes the `git diff` output for each changed file.
- Sends the diff summary to OpenAI's API in batches (limited to 4000 characters) for summary generation.
- Sanitizes content to ensure only relevant alphanumeric and selected symbols are included.
- Displays each summary generated by the OpenAI API, making it easy to track modifications.

## Prerequisites

- **Git**: Ensure `git` is installed and the repository has a history of changes.
- **OpenAI API Key**: Required to send requests to OpenAI’s API. This should be stored in a `.env` file in the project directory.
- **jq**: This JSON processor is used to format API request and response data.
- **cURL**: Used to make HTTP requests to the OpenAI API.

## Installation

1. Clone the repository and navigate to the project directory.
2. Create a `.env` file in the project root with your OpenAI API key:
    ```plaintext
    OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key
    ```

3. Ensure the required tools are installed:
   - Install `jq` on Debian-based systems with `sudo apt-get install jq`.
   - Install `curl` if not already available.

## Usage

1. Run the script in your Git repository:
    ```bash
    ./index.sh
    ```

2. The script will:
   - Load your OpenAI API key from the `.env` file.
   - Check for changed files in the repository.
   - Generate a sanitized diff summary for each file, sending it in 4000-character batches to OpenAI for summarization.
   - Display the output of each summarized topic in the terminal.

### Example Output

```plaintext
- Added new type definitions for Tutor entity in Tutors component
- Refactored TutorItem props for improved type safety
- Updated TutorsList component to handle missing index
...
```
### License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

- Updated README to clarify installation steps for reportgen command - Enhanced index.sh to load environment variables dynamically from the script's directory - Created install script

README.md, after:

# Report Generator

This script provides an automated way to summarize changes made to files in a Git repository. It uses the OpenAI API to generate concise, human-readable summaries of the `git diff` output, useful for generating changelogs or quick summaries of recent modifications.

## Features

- Fetches and summarizes the `git diff` output for each changed file.
- Sends the diff summary to OpenAI's API in batches (limited to 4000 characters) for summary generation.
- Sanitizes content to ensure only relevant alphanumeric and selected symbols are included.
- Displays each summary generated by the OpenAI API, making it easy to track modifications.

## Prerequisites

- **Git**: Ensure `git` is installed and the repository has a history of changes.
- **OpenAI API Key**: Required to send requests to OpenAI’s API. This should be stored in a `.env` file in the project directory.
- **jq**: This JSON processor is used to format API request and response data.
- **cURL**: Used to make HTTP requests to the OpenAI API.

## Installation

1. Clone the repository and navigate to the project directory.
2. Create a `.env` file in the project root with your OpenAI API key:
    ```plaintext
    OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key
    ```

3. Ensure the required tools are installed:
   - Install `jq` on Debian-based systems with `sudo apt-get install jq`.
   - Install `curl` if not already available.

4. Run the `install.sh` script to set up the `reportgen` command:
    ```bash
    chmod +x install.sh
    ./install.sh
    ```

   This will create a symbolic link to the `index.sh` script in `/usr/local/bin`, allowing you to run `reportgen` from anywhere.

## Usage

1. Run the script in your Git repository:
    ```bash
    reportgen
    ```

2. The script will:
   - Load your OpenAI API key from the `.env` file.
   - Check for changed files in the repository.
   - Generate a sanitized diff summary for each file, sending it in 4000-character batches to OpenAI for summarization.
   - Display the output of each summarized topic in the terminal.

### Example Output

```plaintext
- Added new type definitions for Tutor entity in Tutors component
- Refactored TutorItem props for improved type safety
- Updated TutorsList component to handle missing index
...
```

### License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
